This repository contains the code for my academic project on the topic of 'Lyric Generation using Deep Learning'.

The aim of this project was to use deep learning models to generate lyrics in the style of a given artist or genre. The objectives are stated below.

1. Implement and use different deep learning models to generate lyrics.
    * LSTM (long short-term memory)
    * Transformer
2. Evaluate and compare the performance of the models.
    * BLEU (bilingual evaluation understudy)
    * Cosine Similarity using tf-idf (term frequency–inverse document frequency)
3. Build and deploy a web app to showcase the project’s achievements.

Two different datasets were generated using [scraper.py](scraper.py) and stored in the [datasets](datasets) folder. [dataset1](datasets/dataset1.txt) is a dataset containing all the lyrics written by Lou Reed while [dataset2](datasets/dataset2.txt) consists of lyrics compiled from several classic punk albums.

[lstm.py](lstm.py) and [transformer.py](transformer.py) contain the code written to implement and evaluate the LSTM and transformer models respectively.

Built using Flask, the web app can be launched by navigating to the [app](app) directory and executing  `flask run`.

An example of lyrics generated by web app using the transformer model trained on the Lou Reed dataset is given below.

>The sea is weeping  
The baby sits in bed watching a New York station play  
He's from the Bronx and he talks of his movies  
You're not worth shitting on that grand piano  
There are fears that still reverberate  
Jesse you speak so softly  
With your favorite sport's name printed at all offensive  
A new face, something to say  
Ooohhh, shake your hand and smile  
I wish you could walk away from me  
If I want you can't see my heart anymore
